R (#498)
Codecademy/docs: content/r/concepts/operators/operators.md

---
Title: 'Operators'
Description: 'Operators are used to perform various operations on variables and values.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Operators'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Comparison'
  - 'Logical'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-r'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Operators are used to perform various operations on variables and values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operators are used in R to perform various operations on variables and values.
```

> Operators are used to perform various operations on variables and values.
> The standard arithmetic and assignment operators are the most familiar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operators are used in R to perform various operations on variables and values. Among the most commonly used are arithmetic and assignment operators.
```

> The following bit of R code uses a multiplication operator, `*`, to calculate the product of two numbers,
> and the assignment operator, `<-` to store the result in the variable `x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

The following bit of R code uses an arithmetic operator for multiplication, `*`, to calculate the product of two numbers, along with the assignment operator, `<-` to store the result in the variable `x`.
```

```r
# Store five times three in variable x
x <- 5 * 3
```

> R Operators can be organized into the following groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operators in R can be organized into the following groups:
```

> - Arithmetic operators
> - Assignment operators
> - Comparison operators
> - Logical operators
> - Miscellaneous operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Arithmetic operators for traditional mathematical evaluations such as addition and subtraction.
- Assignment operators for assigning values to variables.
- Comparison operators for testing equality between values.
- Logical operators for evaluating the "truthiness" of values against one another.
- Miscellaneous operators for various tasks including vectors and sequencing.
```

## Arithmetic operators

> R has the following arithmetic operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R supports the following arithmetic operators:
```

> - `+`: Addition, returns the sum of two numbers.
> - `-`: Subtraction, returns the difference of two numbers.
> - `*`: Multiplication, returns the product of two numbers.
> - `/`: Division, returns the quotient of two numbers.
> - `^`: Exponent, returns the value of one number raised to the power of another.
> - `%%`: Modulus, returns the remainder of one number divided by another.
> - `%/%`: Integer Division, returns integer quotient of two numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Addition, `+`, for returning the sum of two numbers.
- Subtraction, `-`, for returning the difference between two numbers.
- Multiplication, `*`, for returning the product of two numbers.
- Division, `/`: Division, for returning the quotient of two numbers.
- Exponents, `^`, for returning the value of one number raised to the power of another.
- Modulus, `%%`, for returning the remainder of one number divided by another.
- Integer Division, `%/%`, returning the integer quotient of two numbers.
```

## Assignment operators

> R has the following assignment operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R uses the following assignment operators:
```

> - `<-`: Assigns value on right to variable on left.
> - `->`: Assigns value on left to variable on right.
> - `<<-`: Global version of `<-`.
> - `->>`: Global version of `->`.
> - `=` : Same as `<-`, but use is discouraged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<-` assigns a value to a variable from right to left.
- `->` assigns a value to a variable left to right.
- `<<-` is a global version of `<-`.
- `->>` is a global version of `->`.
- `=` works the same way as `<-`, but its use is discouraged.
```

## Comparison operators

R has the following comparison operators:

> - `==`: Equal, `TRUE` if two values are equal.
> - `!=`: Not equal, `TRUE` if two values are not equal.
> - `<`: Less than, `TRUE` if left value less than right value.
> - `<=`: Less than or equal to, `TRUE` if left value is less than or equal to right value.
> - `>`: Greater than, `TRUE` if left value greater than right value.
> - `>=`: Greater than or equal to, `TRUE` if left value greater than or equal to right value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Equal, `==`, for returning `TRUE` if two values are equal.
- Not equal, `!=`, for returning `TRUE` if two values are not equal.
- Less than, `<`, for returning `TRUE` if left value less than right value.
- Less than or equal to, `<=`, `TRUE` if left value is less than or equal to right value.
- Greater than, `>`, for returning `TRUE` if left value greater than right value.
- Greater than or equal to, `>=`, for returning `TRUE` if left value greater than or equal to right value.
```

## Logical operators

R has the following logical operators:

> - `&`: Element-wise AND, compares each element and returns `TRUE` if both elements are `TRUE`.
> - `&&`: Logical AND, `TRUE` if both values are `TRUE`, only evaluates as many elements as necessary.
> - `|`: Element-wise OR, compares each element and returns `TRUE` if either element is `TRUE`.
> - `||`: Logical OR, `TRUE` if either value is `TRUE`, only evaluates as many elements as necessary.
> - `!`: Logical NOT, `TRUE` if following statement is `FALSE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Element-wise AND, `&`, for comparing each element and returning `TRUE` if both elements are `TRUE`.
- Logical AND, `&&`, for returning `TRUE` if both values are `TRUE`, only evaluates as many elements as necessary.
- Element-wise OR, `|`, for comparing each element and returning `TRUE` if either element is `TRUE`.
- Logical OR, `||`, for returning `TRUE` if either value is `TRUE`, only evaluates as many elements as necessary.
- Logical NOT, `!`, for returning `TRUE` if the associated statement is `FALSE`.
```

> Note: The long form is preferred for `if` statements as the short form can produce a vector value.

Reviewer: I'm sorry but what is this sentence referring to? Long form of what?

## Miscellaneous operators

> R has the following miscellaneous operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
R uses the following miscellaneous operators:
```

> - `:`: Creates a sequence of numbers from the left argument to the right one.
> - `%in%`: `TRUE` if the left argument is in the vector to the right.
> - `%*%`: Performs matrix multiplication on two matrices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `:` operator creates a sequence of numbers from the left argument to the right one.
- The `%in%` operator returns `TRUE` if the left argument is in the vector to the right.
- The `%*%` operator performs matrix multiplication on two matrices.
```
